###Project Title
Visualizing Poetic Space: Mapping Dante’s Comedy
###Abstract
Written in the early 1300s, The Divine Comedy, stood at the threshold of the Medieval and the Renaissance ages. Both its grand universal scope—Dante travels through the center of earth, up through the planets, and beyond the stars—and the intimate, vivid realism with which Dante portrays the souls he encounters, have captivated readers for seven centuries.  In the Renaissance, the specificity of Dante’s geometry lead figures such as Botticelli and Galileo to speculate on the exact topology of the Inferno. In the time since, artists from Bosch to Rodin to Twombly have imagined and reimagined the landscapes and populations of Hell, Purgatory and Paradise. For poets and writers, the formal complexity, beauty and radical inventiveness of Dante’s poetry has opened countless pathways for remaking and reconceiving the written word. This project draws particular inspiration from Italo Calvino and Jorge Luis Borges, the great 20th century fabulists, each of whom regarded Dante as a touchstone for the visual and spatial imagination. 

This project seeks to extends these speculations, inspirations and reimaginations into the emergent 21st century paradigms of knowledge generation, specifically: the three-dimensional interactive capabilities of the graphical user interface, and the n-dimensional dynamics of data transit. Built in JavaScript, using the Threejs 3-D library and a MongoDB database, this speculative map of Dante’s poetic space serves as an environment for active, exploratory, deep, collaborative, and expressive reading of the poem. My central questions are: How can poetic space be visualized? And how can such a visualization lead us to new modes of reading, understanding, imagination and expression.

*   [Link to GitHub pages](http://jthirkield.github.io/thesis/)